# PVP Arena 2.0 - Dev Preview

You want to test PVP Arena 2.0, you're welcome! Before installing this version, **please read this quick guide carefully** 
to prevent data loss or confusing situations.

> ℹ Documentation home page is [reachable from this link](../readme.md)

### Table of contents
* [Warning and requirements](#warning-and-requirements)
* [Installing PVP Arena 2.0](#installing-pvp-arena-20)
* [What's new in 2.0](#whats-new-in-pvp-arena-20)
* [About modules compatibility](#about-modules-compatibility)
* [Issues and support](#issues-and-support)

## Warning and requirements

This version of PVP Arena changes a lot of settings and **is not retrocompatible** with settings of previous versions.
Even if all the core of the plugin was tested, PVP Arena is a big project and several use cases may be missed during 
validation process. That's why this dev preview version exists and that's why **it's strongly unrecommended to use it on
your production Minecraft server**.

Before starting anything, please **make a backup of your whole PVP Arena folder**. A daily backup of your files is advised
to rollback your settings if something happens.

The dev preview versions are compatible with any Spigot based Minecraft server, from 1.13.2 to 1.19.4.

Updates (for plugin and modules) will be only distributed on discord. So **a filesystem access is required** to install 
and update the dev preview versions. No support will be provided for servers that will not respect that (like Aternos 
servers).

## Installing PVP Arena 2.0

### New installation

Just put jar file in your plugin directory and start the server

### Upgrading from 1.15.3 version

Once your server is turned off, replace the jar file of PVP Arena in your plugin folder.
If you want to directly install 2.0 modules, clear the directories `plugins/pvparena/files/` and `plugins/pvparena/mods/`,
then unzip the 2.0 modules pack within `plugins/pvparena/files/`. Otherwise, both directories will be cleanup on first 
startup.

Start your server. The global `config.yml` is now reset and all your previous arena configuration have been moved to
`plugins/pvparena/arenas_old/`. Don't try to copy-back those files in `arenas` directory, they're not compatible.

All saved statistics in `stats.yml` are now useless and can not be recovered in this version. You can delete this file if
you think you don't need it anymore.
New stats are saved in database (by default, in a local SQLite database). You can change it for MySQL or disable stats
recording in your global `config.yml`. See [configuration](configuration.md) chapter for details.

Language entries have been updated. If you use a custom language file, please update it with new entries of `lang_en.yml`.
Be aware: Some of existing entries have also been changed!
For the moment, **language files available on this GitHub have not been updated anymore**.

Now, you can re-create your arenas following the new ["getting started"](getting-started.md) process.

## What's new in PVP Arena 2.0

2.0 version is a technical refactor before anything else. The most part of the work of the two last years was to 
simplify and make the plugin more robust. Therefore, a lot of old issues have been fixed and we could take time to add 
new feature or improve existing ones.

#### Fixes and improvements
* New debugger and new `/pa debug` command (default settings in config.yml)
* Fix the way of loading modules, memory of arena modules is now fully dedicated to an arena
* Time goal has been removed and "timer" is now an arena setting
* Arenas are now limited to only one goal. It's easier to switch arena goal
* Arena config has a fixed order. Settings have been rearranged
* Regions move checks are more efficient
* Gamemode config ("Team" or "free") has been removed. It's now handled by arena goal.
* No need to set flag type or block type anymore in corresponding goals. Type is deducted when you set the block/flag
* Randomness of teams and spawn distribution have been improved
* Player death management has been fully rewrote. Players don't really die from now, so no more death screen or animation issues
* Registration of spawns, blocks and other teleport points have been changed: new commands and new format in config file
* Locations offset has been move to common config.yml
* Statistics have been moved in database (SQLite or MySQL)
* Fix writing default settings of goal or mods
* All goals have been refactored and tested
* Players are pushed back in the battlefield if they try to escape
* When they are teleported to spectate area (for instance after their death), players get the gamemode of the installed spectate mod

#### New features
* Join signs can have custom headers (editable in config.yml)
* BlockRestore has been rewritten. There are new settings and map reset is now incredibly fast (and without lag)
* Possibility to hide nametags of other players (or other teams) during a game
* Arena start is prevented if one or more spawns are out of BATTLE region
* PlaceholderAPI support (cf. [documentation](placeholders.md))
* New QuickLounge join module
* Multiple spawns can be set for teams
* Ability to join during a running match
* Ability to rejoin a running match if player disconnect
* BattlefieldJoin has been re-designed and provides a join timer

## About modules compatibility

First dev preview version focuses on PVP Arena core improvements. As a result, modules have been impacted but a lot of 
them are still unchanged for a long while. The objective of the next dev preview versions will to service every single 
modules to check if they work correctly and fix existing issues.

Therefore, the [modules page of the documentation](modules.md) has been updated with the state of each module. Only ones of them with
a green check mark have been fully tested for 2.0 version. Other ones may work correctly, but they haven't been already
fully tested.

If a module doesn't work correctly or crashes, please don't insist on using it. It will be repaired in next versions. 
Anyway you can report it following instructions below.

## Issues and support

### Issues 

You found an issue with this version? You can report it following this quick process:
* Check if you're using the latest dev version. If not, please update your version and check if issue is still here.
* Check if the issue has not be already reported [on GitHub](https://github.com/Eredrim/pvparena/issues). If so, you 
can add precisions on the opened ticket but please don't open another one.
* Describe your issue and take care to:
  * Specify your server flavour (Spigot, Paper, etc) and its version
  * Specify the PVP Arena version (output of `/pa version`)
  * Add the milestone "2.0" on the right menu

### Support

All support will only be provided on the [discord server](https://discord.gg/a8NhSsXKVQ) in channel **#v2-preview-support**.
You can ask your questions about this version and talk about how does it run on your server.
Keep in my you can use the discord search bar to check if other people already got an answer.